{{DISPLAYTITLE:Nightly channel}}
<div style="float:right; clear:both; margin-left:0.5em;">__TOC__</div>
<p style="font-size: x-large; font-weight:bold;">This page lists what the release management team should do during the Nightly development cycle on Desktop.</p>


= Summarized process =
# Update nightly version in Ship-it at the beginning of the cyle
# Create new blank release notes in Nucleus
# Watch regressions during the cycle,
# File top crashes in Bugzilla from Socorro
# Watch commits and communicate to testers what needs testing
# Check for bugs nominated for tracking and find owners
# Add interesting features to release notes
# Create new flags in Bugzilla for the next version at the end of the cycle

= Cycle details =
== Beginning of a new cycle ==
* Update the version number on Ship-it on merge day when [https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/file/tip/browser/config/version.txt mozilla-central] is updated with a new version number.
* Ask releng for a push of [[Release_Management/Product_details|product-details]] to production once we have all the locales built.
* Copy the previous release notes template in Nucleus with the new version number. You don't have to set it as public as long as there are no note added, a 'coming soon' page will be displayed on mozilla.org as long as the release is created in Nucleus.

== During the cycle ==
* Check for bugs nominated for tracking
* Check bugs filed with the ''nightly-community'' keyword, those are filed by our more engaged alpha-testers and are often recent regressions
* Find owners for tracked bugs. This is important as it gives us a chance to fix new regressions and crashes before they move to channels which have more users.
* Track bugs related to new feature development that are aimed for their release.
* File top crashes and newly appearing crashes from crash-stats
* Watch all commits on mozilla-central for interesting features
** Interesting changes should be communicated to our alpha-testers via our @FirefoxNightly Twitter account
** Interesting changes with an end-user impact to the end user should have the relnote flag set
* Write Release Notes during the cycle based on what is nominated to be included in release notes
* Watch reports on Twitter, IRC and other communication channels about major regressions. Ask releng for a patch to be backed out and nightlies re-spun if the end-user impact may lead to loosing alpha testers.

== End of cycle ==
* Check that there is no visual regression on the What's New Page caused by template changes on mozilla.org or gecko changes in rendering a week before merge day
* Ask the Bugzilla team to create status and tracking flags for the next version, ex: [https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1444839 Bug 1444839]

== Android ==
* We do not maintain release notes for Firefox Nightly on Android
* There is no what's new page for Android

== See also ==
* [[Nightly|FAQ about Firefox Nightly]]
* [[Release_Management/Queries/Nightly|Bugzilla Queries for Firefox Nightly]]
* [[Release_Management/Beta_Release_Checklist|Beta Release Checklist]]

[[Category:Release Management|N]]
[[Category:Release_Management:Processes|N]]
